Can I ask you about jujitsu.
By all means.
<Laugh>. What have you learned from being a practitioner you're a black belt.
What have you learned from this journey? Uh, of,
um, being a martial artist.
Jujitsu for me was the connect of tissue that
started to join my mind together with all the different aspects of my
life. And so jujitsu for me was, was really important.
And I don't think I would be doing anything that I'm doing right now if it
wasn't for jujitsu. Wow.
So there's various aspects of my life that were in
existence,
but I didn't understand how they were connected until I started training
jujitsu.
The primary things are interacting with other human beings and
combat tactics and strategy and jujitsu and all those things are
connected.
They all follow the same guiding principles and I wouldn't have recognized those
guiding principles if I didn't do jujitsu.
Can you elaborate? Cause you've trained for many, many years. What, um,
is it the hardship? Is it the humbling nature of just being tapped all over,
you know, nonstop or I actually dunno how many times <laugh>.
I've tapped more times than you. Okay. Okay. So.
Good. Is it just the hardship of physical training?
Like the honesty of the mat in the sense that like, you know,
what works and what doesn't work, which, which aspects were the most, uh,
impactful for you?
All, all aspects. So, yes, from a humility perspective,
when you realize you think, when you think, you know what you're doing,
when you,
you have certain skills and you realize that there's always somebody better than
you, and you realize that, Hey,
maybe I don't have all the answers all the time and you bring that to a
leadership perspective and you walk into your platoon and you realize that maybe
you don't have all the answers all the time and maybe you should listen to what
other people have to say.
You bring that to a combat situation and you realize that you think if you sit
there and think that you're smarter than the enemy, you're gonna be complacent,
you're gonna make mistakes. So there's one aspect outta the gate,
as far as you know, if I,
if I'm going to try and get your arm, do I attack your arm?
Maybe not directly, unless I'm a white belt.
Exactly. What do I do? I attack your neck.
And when you reach up to defend your neck, that's when I get your arm. Well,
if I'm out on the battlefield and there's an enemy position,
should I attack frontal assault into that position? No,
no, I shouldn't.
I should put down some covering fire and I should maneuver around to the flank.
It's the same thing.
If I'm dealing with you and you're my boss and you've got a giant ego and you've
come up with a plan and I don't like your plan, should I walk up to you and say,
Hey Lex, your plan, isn't good. No. Or should I say, Hey,
L can I ask you some questions about how you want us to execute this?
Cuz I wanna make sure I understand your vision.
<Laugh>.
So all these things are connected. Yes.
And I wouldn't have realized that we could sit here and do this forever.
We could, we could, I could tell you these comparisons forever. Yeah.
But this, all this connective tissue bringing all these things together.
I wouldn't have seen it without ju I don't think I would've seen it without
jujitsu. So jujitsu to me had a,
had a incredible life impact on me.
Not look the physical part. Yes, absolutely. Does it,
does it keep you humble when you know that there's
145 pound individual that can tap you out when you're 220 pound,
25 year old guy,
and there's 135 or 140 pound, you know,
46 year old guy that can make you tap out. That's humbling.
And what do you do with that?
Do you run away from it or do you continue to pursue it? Same thing with life,
same thing with anything. So jujitsu is an incredibly powerful,
not just physical aspect, but it's, it's a way to understand.
It's a way of thinking.
You've also competed. Is there something you can speak to the,
a value of competition?
Obviously you've been through combat actual military
combat is many, many, many orders of magnitude,
more high stakes than competition in a,
in a silly sport like jujitsu. Nevertheless,
it's still has some of the echos of the same challenges.
Is there something you can speak to the value of competition for you?
Yep.
Competition will reveal weaknesses in your game that you can then go back and
train to rectify.
So that that's very useful to sort of, uh, yeah. As a testing ground, of course,
training can be that sing ground as well, uh, or, or, um, that.
Feedback. Yep.
But as you and I both know if you and I train together all the time,
you'll know my game, I'll know your game. And even if we have five other people,
we all kind of understand each other's games. Yes.
And you're not doing something to me that I don't expect.
So when I go and compete, I'm, you're, you know, this random person is,
has game that I've never seen before.
I'm and I may or may not know how to deal with that game.
If I know how to deal with it. Great. I get the victory.
Maybe I don't learn as much if I don't know how to deal with their game.
I get the loss and I get the win of learning.
What some weakness in my game is.